# CEGE0097 Crime Spatial Analysis

### Spatial Analysis & Geocomputation Coursework - Group B6

This is a repository for the Spatial Analysis & Geocomputation module (CEGE0097) at UCL, which was a join project between Claudia Offner, Danni Harnet, Tommy Taylor and Pratibha Patel. The primary task for this project was to assess and model the spatial distributions of London's crime and stop and search by ethnicity. London has the highest crime count in the UK (CrimeRate, 2021).   This project conducted a series of spatial analyses to investigate the relationship between London crime and stop & search (SS) rates in 2016, while accounting for ethnicity and police perceptions (PP). It was hypothesised, that while crime trends will inherently be related to population density, noticeable differences in race will be observed when stratifying models by ethnicity. Spatial-autocorrelation analyses found that most crime and SS data clustered around the centre of London, which was partially attributed to population density. The PP SA analysis found significant spatial differences between white/Asian PP and black PP though the autocorrelation was severely handicapped by a small number of highly aggregated polygons that diminished its purpose beyond providing high-level context. The spatial regression answered the research question and illustrated a noticeable relationship between crime and SS when stratified by ethnicity, which is partially explained by PP (fairness) population density and ward ethnicity.  
